# Importance of the Project
Pricing houses has always posed significant challenges due to the vast array of factors that can influence property values. The goal of this project is to predict 
housing prices accurately, thereby assisting homebuyers, real estate investors, and industry professionals in making informed decisions. By leveraging advanced 
machine learning techniques, this study not only aims to provide reliable price forecasts but also seeks to uncover deeper insights into the various determinants 
of housing prices. This initiative underscores the importance of understanding market dynamics and the potential of data-driven approaches to enhance transparency 
and efficiency in the real estate market.

# Big Picture
By looking at the dataset, the first impression is that there are a bunch of features that human mind is not able to analyze them, and this is exactly where we 
need to machine learning knowledge to be able to extract insights from a wide range of attributes and a huge amount of data. The objective of this dataset is 
clear, we must predict the price of houses based on the past data that is gathered from the previous sale records.

In this dataset we have the price for about 1420 houses which is an enough number of samples for running a supervised learning method. This means that the 
prediction of houses prices would not be unsupervised, where the model try to label the instances itself.

Like unsupervised learning, in self-supervised learning models the labeled samples are not needed considering this fact that the main idea behind self-supervised 
learning is to leverage the inherent structure or characteristics of the data to guide the learning process, without relying on external annotations or labels.

In the case of reinforcement learning, the ideal environment that the use of RL could help a lot is where the features, and the values in the features are changing 
and the system encounters with a dynamic environment. In this case, we have a definite number and type of features and labels for half of the samples that I think 
there is no need to use RL method.

Between the supervised and semi-supervised learning, for this prediction task, I would prefer supervised learning over semi-supervised learning. The dataset 
contains a substantial amount of labeled data, with Sale Price provided for half of the samples. In supervised learning, the model learns from labeled data to make 
predictions on unseen data, which aligns perfectly with the objective of predicting housing prices. While semi-supervised learning could potentially leverage the 
unlabeled data to enhance the model's performance, it may not be necessary in this scenario since we already have a significant portion of labeled data available. 
Therefore, supervised learning would be the preferred choice for this task due to its simplicity, effectiveness, and compatibility with the available dataset.

The type of task in this scenario is regression. Regression models aim to establish a relationship between the independent variables (features) and the dependent 
variable (sale price) to make predictions, and in our case the goal is to predict the price of houses which is a continuous variable using various features such as 
number of bathrooms, number of bedrooms, living area square feet, etc.

Batch learning allows for comprehensive training with the entire dataset at once, optimizing performance without the need for constant updates. However, if the 
dataset is expected to receive continuous updates, such as new listings, recent sales, or changes in market conditions, online learning would be beneficial. Online 
learning can adapt to new data in real-time, incrementally updating the model's parameters without retraining from scratch, making it ideal for dynamic 
environments where timely updates are crucial for maintaining accuracy in predictions. In our dataset, where all instances are available and the dataset is not 
expected to receive new data gradually, employing batch learning techniques would be appropriate.

Some visualizations that I have used to enhance understanding of the data and its characteristics:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e064f967-fec2-416e-98e1-7366b2659ad6)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b35d3deb-6294-4b49-bba4-f4f11e1b572e)

